---
image: /gallery/2024/05/wnews20240523-063.jpg
---
# Julie’s pikelets

Quite a few moons ago, I used to go to Julie
and Herb Barlow’s house most Fridays.
We’d all go to Friday Mass at St Mary’s
then Fr Owen Doyle, Vin Tuohey and
myself would head back to the Barlow
home for morning tea.

There would always be Julie’s pikelets,
buttered and spread with some of her home-
made jam. Yum.

I’d go home and try to replicate the
pikelets, looking up various recipes which
involved melted butter, baking powder,
vanilla essence, butter milk . . . but with very
little success.

So I asked Julie for her recipe.

- 1 cup SR flour
- 2 dessert spoons of sugar
- 1 cup milk
- and 1 egg. That’s all!

I went home and tried that recipe - and
they still weren’t as good as Julie’s. And then
I stood and watched Julie make them one day
and realised one of the reasons mine weren’t
as nice as hers.

As I cooked mine, I laid them out on a
cake cooler. Julie stacked hers up on a plate
which meant they sort of ‘steamed’. At last
I was going to be a Pikelet Queen. I even
bought a dark glass plate like Julie’s in case
that was part of the secret.

And I was quite pleased with the result
and offered to take over the Friday pikelet job.
Well, it wasn’t always a rip roaring success
as I’d sometimes forget to flip the pikelets at
the right time, so that they looked more like
crumpets, but no one was game to complain.

I’ve continued making pikelets for many
years now (I usually butter them and sprinkle
them with cinnamon sugar). I took some to
the ANZAC day service at the hall this year.

But I was quite taken aback when a young
Mum turned up with a batch of HER pikelets
which were much nicer than mine! She says
she doesn’t really have a recipe - just puts this
and that in a bowl and mixes it all up.

Botheration! I may have to go for a demo.
PS I’ve just remembered another hint that
Julie gave me: don’t keep greasing the pan - especially now when non-stick cookware’s
available. I use my sandwich-maker to cook
mine these days.

_Glen_
