---
image: /gallery/2024/05/wnews20240523-058.jpg
---
# Common Ring-tail possum doing OK

We have lost and are still
losing native mammals in
Victoria. Many have become
locally extinct in our area of
Northern Victoria. I can only
dream of seeing Quolls and
Bandicoots in our bushland here.

We have one particular
marsupial mammal which is
holding on here, although it has
likely declined as well due to
habitat loss and predation from
feral cats and foxes.

The Common Ring-tailed
possum is small in comparison
to our larger Brush-tailed
possum. They have been a little
less adaptable to our urban
environments than the Brushies as
well, preferring native bushland
with hollows to the walls or roof
cavities of our houses, although
as more of their natural habitat
has been lost, they can also be
found in urban areas as well. They
usually camp out during the day
in what we call a drey. Their drey
consists of a rounded nest made
from leaves, twigs and branches,
usually either in a hollow or
placed within dense foliage of a
tree or shrub. Unlike the Brush-
tailed who usually camps alone,
Ring-tailed possums prefer to
camp in groups. One male and
several females may occupy the
drey, including young females
born from the previous couple
of years. They are predominantly
arboreal (living in trees) but I
have seen evidence of the Ring-
tailed possums on my bushland
property coming to the ground to
dig up fungi under the surface of
the woodland floor.

Their diet is mainly eucalypt
leaves and foliage but will also
munch on flowers and fruits and
eat both native and introduced
plants. In some areas they may
use human dwellings to rest
during the day but it is much rarer
for them to be in sheds, wall and
roof cavities than their Brush-
tailed cousin. I have not come
across Ring-tailed possums in
our area occupying these spaces
but I’m sure it does happen.

They are not a long lived
animal, average lifespan is only
six years. Both male and female
possums help make the drey and
breeding usually occurs between
April and November. After
breeding, almost a month later
females give birth to a tiny, jelly
bean sized joey which makes its
way to the pouch and secures to a
teat. Twins are common in Ring-
tailed possums. Nourished with
their mother’s milk, after about
seven weeks the young venture
from the pouch to become what
we call back riders, clinging to
mother’s back while she forages
around at night.

Interestingly, the male Ring-
tailed possum is the only possum
we have that will share parental
duties with the female and young
may be transferred to the male’s
back while the female is eating.
Young possums continue to back
ride until around six months of
age.

The most common reasons
we see Ring-tailed possums run
into trouble and come into care
are vehicle collisions, cat and
dog attacks and they can also
get electrocuted on powerlines
and transformers. As they are
territorial, youngsters who come
into care are provided with nesting
boxes upon release to ensure they
have their own drey until they
find their way in the world and
don’t get evicted immediately
by resident possums. You can
help these beautiful possums by
installing nesting boxes around
your property, keeping cats inside
and planting native vegetation.
