---
image: /gallery/2024/04/wnews20240411-061.jpg
---
# This is a sad week for Victoria’s wetlands

After an extensive independent enquiry as to whether duck shooting season has a valid reason to continue in Victoria, the decision has been made to go ahead. The findings of the enquiry were clear cut in the reasons, backed with evidence, why shooting native ducks is not sustainable nor wanted by the majority of the public, yet here we are again.

<!--more-->

Species everywhere in Australia are
declining at an alarming rate. Populations
of once common species are declining, even
becoming locally extinct in areas yet this is a
‘sport’ which those in power back to continue?
A simple decision backed up by evidence
could have easily been made to stop the
decimation of our wetland habitats and species
who occupy them but yet again, decision makers
have caved in to a minority who believe it’s
their right to shoot native species and disrupt the
entire ecosystem of our wetland environments.
Loch Garry is my home
More importantly, Loch Garry is also home
to a plethora of wildlife. It is a significant
breeding site for many wetland species as it
is a seasonal floodway fed from the Goulburn
River which is heavily treed with a Red Gum/
Box forest.
The bird life in there is astounding. The
trees standing both in the water and around
the water’s edge support breeding colonies of
Australian Darters, Little Pied, Pied and Black

Cormorants, Nankeen Night Herons, White-
faced Herons, Egrets, including the endangered

Great Egret, Grebes, different species of water
hen and ducks, Black Swans, Pelicans and
numerous raptor species. This wetland is home
to a breeding pair of White-bellied Sea Eagles
and their offspring is currently still honing
its hunting skills inside the Loch right now
alongside its parents.
A breeding pair of Peregrine Falcons were
successful in getting young through this season
as were a pair of Wedge-tailed Eagles. The
Loch Garry Whistling Kites have also been
very successful in getting young through this

season. Currently the Loch is buzzing with
activity from all these different species. Much
to our excitement, a few Rakali have also
recently been seen feeding in the waters of the
Loch. Once abundant here, our native water rats
disappeared for many, many years in this area,
only to recently return.
If you think this special place sounds like an
environmental paradise for a diverse range of
species, you would be right....it is.
Until duck season opening 10 April at 8am
sharp, this wetland will be shot up by the duck
shooters who are already gathering in camps
just over the levee bank. Our house sits barely
a kilometre from Loch Garry. The sound of
gunshot will reverberate around us, reminding
us that there is nothing we can do to protect
the creatures who we otherwise protect all
year round. My children always ask if there is
anything we can do, the answer is always the
same. We tried to stop it.
This year is no different. We have tried to
stop it. We have submitted our concerns to the
Conservation Regulator, the Game Management
Authority, ministers and relevant officials to
no avail. The people who live here, protect
and respect our unique wetland cannot even
set foot within 50 metres of the water without
possessing a hunting licence once the season
begins. Unless you have witnessed it personally,
the only description that is apt is one of akin to
war zone. The gunshot is a continual shocking

disturbance for everyone and everything within
earshot. Outboard motors roaring from one end
of the wetland to the other, captained by men
with a gun in one hand, a can in the other...and
the cans are not of the soft drink kind.
Wood removal, littering of both spent
cartridges, toilet paper, bird remains and general
human rubbish is always left.
Once the season is over, we go out with
heavy hearts, kayaking where there was life
everywhere only to be faced with an eerily
silent wetland. The few birds which may remain
take flight when they catch wind of a human

200 meters away.
Loch Garry borders a National Park. No
fences. One side of the main track is National
Park, the other side of the main track is
Game Reserve. Loch Garry was State Forest
slated to be included in the Lower Goulburn
National Park. It was, without any community
consultation or transparency, quietly excluded
from the original plans and handed to the Game
Management Authority to appease the shooters
as Reedy Swamp was another wetland which
became protected under the new National
Park. Reedy Swamp sits right in Shepparton,
is more visible to the public eye and certainly
less acceptable to have shooters causing havoc.
The locality and isolation of Loch Garry, could
be why this is an acceptable shooting ground
of native species Environmentally, the Loch is
possibly more important than Reedy for both
habitat and diversity of species recorded. When
we are faced with constant misdemeanours and
bad behaviour from shooters, calling officials is
faced with, ‘sorry, we do not have the resources
to send any one out there. Don’t approach them
yourselves though as they are obviously armed
and potentially drunk’. Where do we go to get
assistance? Officials put in a brief appearance
and once they are gone, the shooters know they
are free to do as they please.
If we wish to protect these environments
there needs to be public outcry. Just like our
forests are disappearing through the death of
a thousand cuts, these areas which are open
to shooting are dying through the death of a
thousand shots.
It’s cases like this and government decisions
which continue to ignore the evidence that is
put before them, cause me to ponder whether
we have come as far environmentally that we
purport to have come. From where I stand, I see
continual government support of the destruction
of our wild places and the native diversity which
depend on their protection.
This week is indeed a sad time for Victorian
wetlands.
