# Opium use

Some of the Chinese immigrants in the
Waranga area were opium users. One of the
many stereotypes trotted out by the press
of the day referred to “opium dens” and the
number of “depredations” attached thereto.
At the same time, the writers tended to
overlook the excessive use of alcohol by the
European miners that was far more likely to
result in violence and other crime.

Ironically, it was the British who had
introduced opium to China. They had
something of a monopoly on the worldwide
opium trade in the 19th century and saw
huge trading opportunities given the size of
the Chinese population. Opium was being
illegally imported into China by British
merchants, particularly from about 1820.
The Chinese government began to resist
more strongly because of the impact on its
citizens. Two wars were fought between the
Chinese and British resulting in the latter
securing their trading position along with
other economic concessions.

One of the large centres for trading was
the Guangdong region of south-eastern
China. Many miners who came to Australia
for the gold rush were from this area and
were already opium users when they arrived.
It may be that others took up the habit after
they arrived, given the difficulties they faced
living in this country.

## Older men

There is not much reliable information
about the extent of opium use during the
halcyon days of the gold rush of the 1850s
and early 1860s. It seems to have been
fairly common, also providing a business
opportunity for merchants and owners of
establishments where the drug was used.
Distribution may or may not have been under
the control of the secret societies mentioned
in the previous story.

Some of the men who remained in the
Waranga area from the mid-1860s were
regular users. It seems that many of those
who were left here after most of their
compatriots had gone, tended to be loners,
often destitute. With no option of returning
to their homeland, opium may have dulled the
pain of their existence.

## Opium poisoning death

There is one account of a Chinese man
who died of opium poisoning at Scotchman’s
Gully, Whroo in 1874. It was unclear whether
this was an accident or perhaps an intentional
overdose with a view to committing suicide.
At the inquest into his death, his mate Young
Hong said that Ah Hin was a poor man who
“smoked opium more or less according to the
money he made.” 1 Ah Hin was apparently in
very low spirits at the time of his death.

The venerable Dr J V Heily did an autopsy
after the death and provided a graphic six-
page deposition to the inquest, which was
held at the Balaclava Hotel in Whroo. The
good doctor had known the deceased prior
to his death and, along with other witnesses,
stated that Ah Hin had been a regular user
for many years. On the day of his death, he
had taken the opium in a liquid form rather
than smoking. It was concluded that he had
probably done so with suicidal intent.

Other deaths around this time were not
caused by opium poisoning, although it was
often noted at the inquest if the deceased had
been an opium user.

## Victoriana

Within the European community, there
were also opium users. At the time, it was
not an illegal drug. As well as taking the
drug recreationally, as some of the Chinese
did, others used it as a non-prescribed, cheap
medicine known as Laudanum. Various other
products like cough syrup also had an opiate
base. Men, women and children used the
medications regularly and purchases from
chemists were not limited.2 Cocaine was also
readily available over the counter.

Towards the end of the 19th century, there
was a growing awareness of the dangers of
opium use. Medicinal use started to come
under stricter controls and there were efforts
to dismantle the opium trade.

No such efforts were made to control
alcohol consumption, which along with
tobacco tended to be the drugs of choice of
the Europeans who flocked to the area during
the gold rush. Some of the Chinese also
imbibed alcohol.

_Sources: 1 PROV File No 1874/590; 2
Historic UK website_
