---
image: /gallery/2024/05/wnews20240523-064.jpg
---
# Pruning Hydrangeas

Pruning hydrangeas after they have finished
flowering is crucial for maintaining their
health and encouraging abundant blooms in
the following season. The best time to prune
hydrangeas is in autumn or early winter, after
the flowers have faded. This timing allows the
plant to focus on root and stem development
during the dormant period.

When pruning, it’s important not to cut back
any stems that did not flower in the current
year. These non-flowering stems are the ones
that will produce blooms in the upcoming
season. By preserving them, you ensure that
your hydrangeas will have a robust and vibrant
display of flowers next year.

Begin by removing any dead, diseased, or
damaged growth. Dead stems can be identified
by their brittle texture and lack of green tissue
inside. Diseased stems might show signs of
discoloration, spots, or unusual growth patterns,
while damaged stems could be broken or split.

Additionally, thinning out some of the
older, thicker stems at the base can improve
air circulation and light penetration, promoting
healthier growth. By following these pruning
guidelines, you will help your hydrangeas
thrive and continue to be a stunning feature in
your garden.

## Pruning Salvias

Pruning salvias is essential for maintaining
their health, encouraging prolific blooming, and
keeping the plants looking tidy. The best time
to prune salvias depends on the variety, but
generally, there are two main pruning periods:
after the first flush of flowers in mid-summer
and again in late autumn or early winter.

### Late Autumn or early winter pruning

In late autumn or early winter, after the
salvia has finished blooming for the year, a
substantial pruning is necessary.

Cut back the entire plant to about 1/3 of its
original height. This hard pruning removes any
dead or diseased stems and helps to shape the
plant for the coming year. It also prevents the
plant from becoming too woody and encourages
fresh, vigorous growth in the spring.

For perennial salvias, avoid cutting back
into the old, woody growth too aggressively, as
this can damage the plant.
